JDK Flight Recorder Extension (#37900)
quarkusio/quarkus: docs/src/main/asciidoc/jfr.adoc

////
This guide is maintained in the main Quarkus repository
and pull requests should be submitted there:
https://github.com/quarkusio/quarkus/tree/main/docs/src/main/asciidoc
////
= Using JDK Flight Recorder
include::_attributes.adoc[]
:categories: observability
:summary: This guide explains how your Quarkus application can utilize JDK Flight Recorder to provide insight into itself.
:topics: observability,jfr
:extensions: io.quarkus:quarkus-jfr

This guide explains how your Quarkus application can utilize https://openjdk.org/jeps/328[JDK Flight Recorder] (JFR) to provide

> insight into itself.

Reviewer: Maybe add some more, like:
By adding this extension, a file names "something.jfr" will be stored in .../target (or .../build for Gradle) with the contents of the JFR event stream that is also enriched with Quarkus custom events.

Author: I have done the following based on your review

```
This guide explains how your Quarkus application can utilize https://openjdk.org/jeps/328[JDK Flight Recorder] (JFR) to provide
insight into itself.
JFR records various information from the Java standard API and JVM as events.
By adding this extension, you can add custom Quarkus events to JFR. This will help you solve problems in your application.

JFR can be preconfigured to dump a file, and when the application exits, JFR will output the file.
The file will contain the contents of the JFR event stream to which Quarkus custom events have also been added.
You can, of course, get this file at any time you want, even if your application exits unexpectedly.
```

Reviewer: It looks good, can you please commit it?

== Prerequisites

:prerequisites:
include::{includes}/prerequisites.adoc[]

== Architecture

In this guide, we create a straightforward REST application to demonstrate JFR.

== Creating the Maven project

First, we need a new project. Create a new project with the following command:

:create-app-artifact-id: jfr-quickstart

> :create-app-extensions: resteasy-reactive,quarkus-jfr

Author: I had fixed the dependencies in pom.xml, but forgot to change this here. Thanks.

////
This guide is maintained in the main Quarkus repository
and pull requests should be submitted there:
https://github.com/quarkusio/quarkus/tree/main/docs/src/main/asciidoc
////
= Using JDK Flight Recorder
include::_attributes.adoc[]
:categories: observability

> :summary: This guide explains how your Quarkus application can utilize JDK Flight Recorder to provide insight into itself.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:summary: This guide explains how JDK Flight Recorder can be extended to provide insight into your Quarkus application.
```

:topics: observability,jfr
:extensions: io.quarkus:quarkus-jfr

> This guide explains how your Quarkus application can utilize https://openjdk.org/jeps/328[JDK Flight Recorder] (JFR) to provide

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This guide explains how https://openjdk.org/jeps/328[JDK Flight Recorder] (JFR) can be extended to provide insight into your Quarkus application.
```

Now we can see the Quarkus events per thread.

image::jfr-thread.png[alt=JDK Mission Control thread view,role="center"]

[NOTE]
====
Non-blocking is where multiple processes are processed apparently simultaneously in a single thread.
Therefore, this extension records multiple JFR events concurrently, and a number of events might overlap on the JMC.
This could make it difficult for you to see the events you want to see.
To avoid this, we recommend to use Request IDs (described below) to filter events so that you only see the information about the requests you want to see.
====

== Events

=== Identifying Requests
This extension works with the OpenTelemetry extension.
The events recorded by this extension have a trace ID and a span ID. These are recorded with the OpenTelemetry IDs respectively.

This means that after we identify the trace and span IDs of interest from the UI provided by the OpenTelemetry implementation, we can immediately jump to the details in JFR using those IDs.

If we have not enabled the OpenTelemetry extension, this extension creates an ID for each request and links it to JFR events as a traceId.
In this case, the span ID will be null.

> For now, Quarkus only has REST events, but we plan to use this ID to link each event to each other as we add more events in the future.

Reviewer 2: is there some docs on how/what  extension writers can do to add more events to jfr ?

Author: I have added content for exstension writers to the document.

=== Event Implementation Policy
When JFR starts recording an event, the event does not record to JFR yet, but when it commits that event, the event is recorded.
Therefore, events that have started recording at dump time but have not yet been committed are not dumped.
This is unavoidable due to the design of JFR.
This means that events are not recorded forever if there are prolonged processing.
Therefore, you will not be aware of prolonged processing.

To solve this problem, Quarkus can also record start and end events at the beginning and end of processing.
These events are disabled by default.

> However, we can enable these events on JFR.(described below)

Reviewer 2: below where?  didn't spot enablement of these events?

This means that after we identify the trace and span IDs of interest from the UI provided by the OpenTelemetry implementation, we can immediately jump to the details in JFR using those IDs.

If we have not enabled the OpenTelemetry extension, this extension creates an ID for each request and links it to JFR events as a traceId.
In this case, the span ID will be null.

For now, Quarkus only has REST events, but we plan to use this ID to link each event to each other as we add more events in the future.

=== Event Implementation Policy
When JFR starts recording an event, the event does not record to JFR yet, but when it commits that event, the event is recorded.
Therefore, events that have started recording at dump time but have not yet been committed are not dumped.
This is unavoidable due to the design of JFR.
This means that events are not recorded forever if there are prolonged processing.
Therefore, you will not be aware of prolonged processing.

To solve this problem, Quarkus can also record start and end events at the beginning and end of processing.
These events are disabled by default.
However, we can enable these events on JFR.(described below)

=== REST API Event

> This event is recorded when either `resteasy-reactive` or `resteasy-classic` extension is enabled.

Reviewer: The documentation still uses the old naming here for `resteasy-reactive`

Author: Thank you. These have been fixed. I may have forgotten to change them when I squashed these
